Hello everyone and welcome solution for the singly linked list cycle check problem and this problem
you were given a singly linked list and you had to write a function which takes in the first node and
the singly linked list and then returns a boolean in the Kidding of the list at the linked list contains
what's known as a cycle and that cycle is one of nodes.
Next point actually points back to previous node in the list.
This is also sometimes known as a circularly linked list.
You were given this linked list class Node.
OK.
So here we have our solution and the code to go along with it.
Let me go ahead and read through just the basic explanation before we start coding it out in order to
solve this problem we're going to do is have two markers traversing through the list marker one in marker
two.
Those are going to be the variable names.
Then we will have both markers begin at the first note of the list and traverse through the linked list
.
However the second marker marker 2 will move two nodes ahead of every one note that marker moves marker
one moves by this logic we can imagine the markers are racing through the linked list with marker 2
moving slightly faster for different step size.
If the linked list has a cycle and is circularly connected we will have in the analogy of almost like
two runners on a track in the field with marker to being the faster runner.
And in this case the marker too will eventually be lapping the marker one and they will equal each other
if the linked list has no cycle than a marker to be able to continue on until the very end never equaling
the first marker.
So explain that basic logic one more time for you.
You can essentially imagine having two tracks one is a straight single line track and the other one
is a circular track.
If he had two runners on the track one very fast and one a little slower than if the track was just
a single straight line.
In this case it was just a list with no cycle.
Then the runners would never actually meet up.
The faster runner would just go ahead of the slower one and they would never actually meet up.
But if you have a cycle or in this case a circular track then eventually that faster runner.
In our case marker 2 is going to go along that track that linked list for cycling it and you'll eventually
pass or lap marker 1 and they're going to eventually meets.
And in this case equal their values to each other.
So that's the main logic here.
So let's go ahead and implement this so we can get a better idea of what's going on.
Jumping to a code note book.
Let's begin by saying DPF will say cycle underscore check and taken that node will begin both markers
at the first node will say marker 1 equals node marker 2 equals node.
And then we're going to go until the end of the list.
We're going to say a while marker 2 does not equal none meaning we haven't reached that tail end marker
to that next node does not equal none meaning marker 2 isn't just about to finish.
Now we're going to take a note we're going to say marker 1 is equal to marker 1 next node and marker
2 is going to be equal to marker to the next node dot next node.
That's essentially how we're going to make marker to go a little faster.
MARGARET Isn't a check one node ahead of marker one that we want to check if those markers have actually
matched so.
Marker 2 is equal to marker 1 we return true.
And there might be a case where the marker head reaches the end the list means there's no cycle there
then.
In that case we just return false.
So let's break this down one more time.
We have two markers.
They start off at just the node and then we clarify until market 2 doesn't equal none.
Or its next node is not equal to.
Sorry about that none.
Then what's going to happen is we'll check marker 1's next node in marker twos two nodes ahead.
Meaning this one is essentially that faster runner on that lap than if Margaret 2 is equal to marker
1 we just return true.
Otherwise they never met up marker to never quote unquote lapped marker 1.
So then we just return false.
You can go ahead and run that.
So let's go ahead and test this.
Zoom out a bit and we'll put in our node class and then we're going to go ahead and copy and paste the
test cell from the notebook and there's a test cell.
So we basically just check against the cycle in a linked list that does not have a cycle.
And if we run this we get all test cases pass.
All right.
That's all there is.
This is a bit of a trick but it's a really good way of thinking about this problem and hopefully hopefully
that analogy of two runners running around that track or running down a straight line of one of them
being basically in essence a node faster here and seeing if they meet up is a good way of thinking about
this particular problem.
This is a really common problem in interviews especially interviews testing linked lists knowledge.
So make sure you really know this one and it'll be really great if you can explain this analogy to whoever's
interviewing you.
All right that's it for this lecture and the solution.
I will see you at the next one.
Thanks everyone.